=pod

=head1 NAME

Perl 5 MOP - Introduction

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  Perl was always designed to be an evolving language.
    -- Larry Wall

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The following is a proposal for the introduction of a new
object system for Perl 5. The documentation is split into
different parts and are meant to be read in order so as to
build the conceptual understandings necessary for the
subsequent parts. The major parts are as follows:

=head2 Meta Object Protocol

These documents can be found in the F<000-mop> folder and
they explain some of the core concepts of the class system.

This really should be read first in order for the later
documents to make sense. If nothing more just the intro
document should be read, the rest can be reviewed later on.

=head2 Syntax and Semantics

These documents can be found in the F<001-syntax-and-semantics>
folder and they explain the proposed syntax and semantics for
this new object system.

=head2 Interals

These documents can be found in the F<010-internals> folder
and contain a number of documents detailing some of the
internal mechansims of this proposal.

=head1 FAQs

Much of the details of what and why will be covered in the
individual documents that detail the various parts of the
system. So in this document I have decided to address what
I believe will be frequently asked questions about the proposal
as a whole.

=head2 Why a completely new object system?

It is my opinion that this is the best way to both maintain
backwards and forwards compatability as well as not burden
ourselves with the choices of the past. Allow me expand on
this somewhat.

How this helps backwards compatability is fairly obvious since
the system will be completely new and just simply live beside
the old one. But it also helps forward compatability, by which
I mean the ability for old-style Perl OO and new-style Perl OO
to interoperate. There are billions of lines of Perl code on
the CPAN which B<must not> be left behind. By keeping the two
system separate and assuring that the new system is equally
as flexible as the classic system, an interoperability layer
can be created to bridge the two.

I also feel that it is critically important that we not burden
ourselves with the past. The classic Perl OO system is almost
20 years old, and what was state of the art in OO 20 years ago
is not state of the art now. It is my opinion that it is
important for Perl as a language to start fresh.

=head2 What if I don't like "the way you do it"?

This is Perl, so obviously there will be "more then one way".

For starters you can always go back to the classic OO system,
it should not be removed or deprecated. However, this new system
is being designed with the spirit of TIMTOWTDI at the core. It
is my intention that the internals of the system will be
pluggable in the same way that the regexp engine is pluggable.
Additionally this system is being built to be fully meta-circular
with a  powerful and flexible MOP at the core. This, along with
the custom keyword functionality, means that there is very
little you won't be able to change in the end.

=head1 AUTHOR

Stevan Little E<lt>stevan.little@iinteractive.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2011 Infinity Interactive, Inc.

L<http://www.iinteractive.com>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut