=pod

=head1 NAME

Perl 5 MOP - Meta Object Protocol - Introduction

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is an introduction to the MOP oriented documents of
this proposal. The purpose of this document is to try and
explain in basic terms what a MOP is, what you can do with
it and lastly a note about metacircularity.

The purpose of this document is to give you enough of a
basic understanding of what a MOP is so that the later
documents make more sense. Even if you know a lot about
MOPs, it is probably not a bad idea to skim this since it
will talk somewhat about how we will approach the proposed
MOP.

The key thing to keep in mind with all this MOP stuff is
that we believe, based on practical experience with Moose,
that building a MOP oriented class system is the right
way to get the level of flexibility and extensibility that
this system requires.

=head2 What is a MOP?

A MOP is a Meta Object Protocol, which is essentially just
an API for an object system. Just as an API for network
communications might model things like Sockets and Packets,
a MOP models things like Classes, Method, Attributes and
Instances.

One of my favorite ways to describe a MOP is as follows:

  It is an abstraction of a system of abstractions that is
  used to build abstractions.

That is to say, it is an abstraction (the MOP) of a system
of abstractions (classes and objects) that is used to build
abstractions (the classes you define).

=head2 What can I do with a MOP?

And just like the Socket class in a network API would have
methods to manipulate aspects of the Socket, the MOP API
would have methods to manipulate the aspects of the MOP
(Classes, Methods, Attributes, etc.).

The proposed MOP is constructed of four sub protocols,
each which deals with a certain aspect of the object
system. Below is a brief overview of each section.

=over 4

=item Classes

The concept of a class is core to the entire MOP and
is the top-level container for the remaining three
concepts. A class itself will contain a set of
attributes, a set of methods and its primary
responsibility is that of constructing instances.

The class sub-protocol would have methods to do things
like introspect the set of attributes, add a new
method or traverse the method resolution order.

=item Attributes

The concept of an attribute is that of the internal
state of a class. Just a class can be viewed as the
definition of instances of it, an attribute in a class
is the definition of a specific slot inside an instance.

The attribute sub-protocol would have methods to
introspect things like the name of the attribute, the
default value assigned.

=item Methods

The concept of a method is simple really, it is just
a function which can be dispatched from an instance and
whose scope is that of the instance itself.

The method sub-protocol would have methods to
introspect things like the name, arity and signature
of the method.

=item Instances

The concept of an instance is a value which knows from
what class it was created and contains a set of slots
which correspond to the attributes in the class (and
any superclasses).

The instance sub-protocol would have methods to
find the associated class, get/set the values in the
slots or list the set of slots.

=back

=head2 Metacircularity

The proposed MOP is a meta-circular one, this means that
during the bootstrap process, we "tie the knot" such that
the following three statements are true:

  Class is an instance of Class
  Object is an instance of Class
  Class is a subclass of Object

Here is this represented visually.

  ---> is subclass of
  ...> is instance of

       .....
       :   :
       V   :
       Class -----+
         ^        |
         :        |
      Object <----+

At first view this might seem hopelessly mind bending and
not very useful. But the fact is, we must start somewhere.
The idea of modeling a "class" can be a thought of a as a
variant of the chicken-and-egg problem (which came first).

In many OO languages, especially those that are not explicitly
meta-circular, the idea of a "class" is simply part of the
language and springs forth from the compiler fully formed.
While this approach is perhaps easier to understand for some
it leaves a large conceptual gap in the object system
and puts the burden for object-system extensibility on the
compiler authors.

This proposal takes a different route, one taken by languages
such as LISP and Smalltalk, whereby we model the idea of
a "class" with a class itself. This is probably best
illustrated through code (using the newly proposed syntax).

B<AUTHORS NOTE:> Before we go too much further, I need to
call attention to the capitalization of the word class. When
we say "Class", we are speaking of the noun which indicates
the actual item that models the concept of classes, when we
say "class" we are speaking of the concept of a class. This
distinction is very important.

And now onto the code:

  class Class ( extends => Object ) {
      has $name;

      has $superclasses = [];
      has $attributes   = {};
      has $methods      = {};
  }

As with all classes in our system, we are derived from the
universal base class Object. Then we model Class to have
a C<$name> attribute, a C<$superclasses> attribute, an
C<$attributes> attribute and a C<$methods> attribute. If
you stop and think for a moment, this is the base elements
which make up a class (somewhat simplified of course).

Of course we are back with our chicken-and-egg problem again
because in order for this to work, several things had to
exist. First the Object class must be there, second Class
is itself a class (implemented in terms of itself). But this
is where the bootstrap process comes into play. We simply
use very low level primitives to construct all the necessary
parts, then hook them together accordingly, using those
similarly low level features.

So basically what we end up with is a self-describing system
which can be understood and explored in terms of itself as
well as be extended by itself. The result is a very flexible
and highly extensible system which keeps true to the idea of
TIMTOWTDI at the very core.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 Moose

L<https://www.metacpan.org/module/Moose>

=head2 LISP resources

=over 4

=item The Art of the Metaobject Protocol

L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Art_of_the_Metaobject_Protocol>

=item The Common Lisp Object System MetaObject Protocol

L<http://www.alu.org/mop/index.html>

=back

=head2 Smalltalk resources

=over 4

=item Smalltalk "Blue Book"

L<http://stephane.ducasse.free.fr/FreeBooks/BlueBook/>

=item Smalltalk: a Reflective Language

L<http://www2.parc.com/csl/groups/sda/projects/reflection96/docs/rivard/rivard.html>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Stevan Little E<lt>stevan.little@iinteractive.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2011 Infinity Interactive, Inc.

L<http://www.iinteractive.com>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut