=pod

=head1 NAME

Perl 5 MOP - Meta Object Protocol - Attribute Sub Protocol

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document will describe the proposed API for the
attribute sub-protocol of the MOP.

Currently the method sub-protocol is very small, and
it will likely stay this way. However, as has been
found with Moose, this sub-protocol is an extremely
powerful extension point.

=head2 API

The attribute sub-protocol is (at this stage) completely
immutable. The reason being that we believe it is
dangerous to allow the manipulation of attribute internals
simply for the huge potential impact that could have.
Instead you are encouraged to simply clone an attribute
and change the values during the clone process.

B<AUTHORS NOTE:> This is by no means a comprehensive
list, nor is it a fixed list, of methods. This is simply
the first draft of this.

=head3 General

=over 4

=item C<get_name>

This returns the name of the attribute as a string.

=item C<get_initial_value>

This returns the initial value (if any) that the attribute
was given.

=item C<get_initial_value_for_instance>

This returns a suitable copy of the initial value of the
attribute to be used in instance construction.

=item C<clone( %params )>

Clone this object and override any internal elements using
the values in C<%params>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Stevan Little E<lt>stevan.little@iinteractive.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2011 Infinity Interactive, Inc.

L<http://www.iinteractive.com>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut