=pod

=head1 NAME

Perl 5 MOP - Meta Object Protocol - Method Sub Protocol

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document will describe the proposed API for the
method sub-protocol of the MOP.

Currently the method sub-protocol is very small, this is
largely because the exact details of what we can have
with methods is still unclear.

Ideally methods would have signatures, which means it
would be nice to have methods to introspect those
signatures. However if this cannot be done, then the
method protocol will likely stay this small.

=head2 API

The method sub-protocol is (at this stage) completely
immutable. The reason being that we believe it is
dangerous to allow the manipulation of method internals
simply for the huge potential impact that could have.
Instead you are encouraged to simply clone a method
and change the values during the clone process.

B<AUTHORS NOTE:> This is by no means a comprehensive
list, nor is it a fixed list, of methods. This is simply
the first draft of this, and a rough one at that.

=head3 General

=over 4

=item C<get_name>

This returns the name of this particular method as a string.

=item C<get_body>

This returns the body of this method as a CODE reference,
which can be called using the normal CODE ref syntax.

=item C<execute( $invocant, @args )>

Given an C<$invocant> and an optional array of arguments,
this will execute the method within the scope of the
C<$invocant>.

=item C<clone( %params )>

Clone this object and override any internal elements using
the values in C<%params>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Stevan Little E<lt>stevan.little@iinteractive.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2011 Infinity Interactive, Inc.

L<http://www.iinteractive.com>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut