=pod

=head1 NAME

Perl 5 MOP - Syntax - Metadata

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A core component of this object system and (IMO) the key to
getting a truly Perlish level of flexibility and extensibility,
is the idea of metadata. Since this is a pretty over-used term,
this document attempts to clarify exactly what this means.

It would be safe to say that what I am proposing is along the
same lines as Python Decorators, C#/.NET Attributes and Java
Annotations. Which is to say that this is metadata being
declared at compile time and being used by the compiler to
make certain decisions as it does its work.

However, unlike these other languages though, my proposed syntax
is quite simple and should require nothing beyond what the Perl
lexer can already understand.

=head2 Metadata (the expression)

A metadata expression is simply a Perl expression contained
within a set of parentheses which, when evaluated, should
result in metadata (the noun). Here are a few examples:

  ( is => 'rw', default => 100 )

  ( map { $_ => 1 } qw( lazy closed ) )

The context in which this metedata expression is evaluated in
is somewhat tricky since it will happen during compile-time.
However this is not all that different in complexity from how
C<BEGIN> and other compile time blocks are dealt with.

=head2 Metadata (noun)

Metadata is the result of a metadata expression and simply a
set of key-value pairs otherwise known in Perl as a hash.

In later documents I will introduce three keywords; C<class>,
C<has> and C<method>. Each of these keywords should accept
an optional metadata expression which would be feed to the
underlying objects being constructed.

=head1 NOTES

In some ways I can see this as being some kind of general
purpose mechanism, however it could get a little messy
where the metadata is passed to the thing being annotated
with the metadata. There would need to be an API for this
and I believe that to be beyond the scope of these
documents.

=head1 LINKS

=over 4

=item Python Decorators

L<http://wiki.python.org/moin/PythonDecorators>
L<http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0318/>
L<http://www.artima.com/weblogs/viewpost.jsp?thread=240808>

=item C# Attributes

L<http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa288059(v=VS.71).aspx>

=item Java Annotations

L<http://download.oracle.com/javase/1,5.0/docs/guide/language/annotations.html>
L<http://www.eclipse.org/aspectj/doc/released/adk15notebook/annotations.html>
L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_annotation>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Stevan Little E<lt>stevan.little@iinteractive.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2011 Infinity Interactive, Inc.

L<http://www.iinteractive.com>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut