=pod

=head1 NAME

Perl 5 MOP - Syntax & Semantics - Classes

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document introduces the proposed class syntax for the
new object system for Perl.

=head1 SYNTAX

The main component of any object system is the class
declarations, and for this we propose a new C<class> keyword
with which to declare classes.

The new C<class> keyword helps to separate the old style
classes from the new style classes. This will not only
contribute to eaiser to maintain backwards compatability,
but will allow us to contain all the other syntactic
extensions within it.

Keep in mind that the C<class> keyword is really just sugar
around the construction of an instance of C<Class>, for more
information about this refer to the documents in the
F<000-mop> directory. For instance, the following two lines
would be equivalent:

  class Foo {}

  *Foo = Class->new( name => 'Foo' );

The syntax of a C<class> definintion has four variants, I
will describe each one here, after which I will delve into
the exact defitition of a class body.

=over 4

=item C<< class <NAME> { <BODY> } >>

This is the simplest varient and it is simply the C<class>
keyword, followed by a name, followed by block in which
the class body would be defined.

A simple example of this would be:

  class Foo {}

The name would conform to the same rules as package and
subroutine names in Perl, which is that it must begin with
an non-numeric character and is followed by any number of
other characters after that.

=item C<< class <NAME> extends <NAME>(, <NAME>) { <BODY> } >>

This is the varient for when you are extending a superclass
or superclasses. This simply injects between the class name
and body definition, the C<extends> keyword followed by one
or more comma seperated class names.

A few simple example of this would be:

  class Bar extends Foo {}

  class Baz extends Foo, Bar {}

The superclass list should also be optionally enclosed by
paratheses as well, like this:

  class Baz extends (Foo, Bar) {}

It is important to note that the superclasses are B<not>
quoted strings. As will be decribed in later documents,
a class should be considered a first-class citizen and so
should be a valid bareword.

B<AUTHORS NOTE>

I am not 100% happy with this, both the C<extends> keyword
(I kind of like C<isa> though I worry that might make parsing
complex), and I am not 100% sure this is the right way for
multiple inheritance to look either.

=item C<< class <NAME> (<METADATA>) { <BODY> } >>

This is the varient where we provide custom metadata to the
class itself. The metadata will be simply a perl-expression
which will be evaluated at class creation time and passed
into the underlying class constructor (NOTE: we will discuss
more the details of what is metadata in later documents).

Here is a simple example of this:

  class Foo ( is_closed => 1 ) {}

Here the metadata being passed is a simple flag that,
assuming the class object supports it, would tell the
metaclass that the class should be 'closed' (for whatever
that means as determined by your metaclass).

  *Foo = Class->new( is_closed => 1 );

The only special condition here is that if you pass in
the a metadata key-value pair with the key C<metaclass>
then the value of this will be used as the metaclass to
construct this class with. So for example, the following
two lines are equivalent:

  class Foo ( metaclass => FooMeta ) {}

  *Foo = FooMeta->new( name => 'Foo' );

Again it is important to note that the metaclass is not
given as a string, but as a first-class citizen bareword.

=item C<< class <NAME> (<METADATA>) extends <NAME>(, <NAME>) { <BODY> } >>

This last varient is actually fairly obvious by now, it is
just an example of a class which passes metadata as well as
inheriting from a superclass.

Here is a simple example of this:

  class Foo ( is_closed => 1 ) extends Bar {}

=back

=head1 QUESTIONS

=head2 How do classes interact with packages?

A class is a first-class citizen, which means it should behave in a
way similar to subroutines. So given the following code:

  package Foo;
  use strict;
  use warnings;

  class Bar { ... }

In order to access the class C<Bar> you would need to use the fully
qualified name C<Foo::Bar>.

Additionally all the variables and subroutines inside the package
would be visisble inside the class, and the class itself visible
to the subroutines in the package. This would mean that in the
following code:

  package Foo;
  use strict;
  use warnings;
  sub get_bar { Bar->new }
  class Bar { ... }

Calling C<Foo::get_bar> would return an instance of the C<Bar> class.
And in the following code:

  package Foo;
  use strict;
  use warnings;
  our $BAZ = 100_000;
  class Bar {
      method get_foo_baz { $BAZ }
  }

Calling the C<get_foo_baz> method on an instance of C<Bar> would
return the value of C<$BAZ>.

Additionally the C<__PACKAGE__> variable in C<Bar> would be "Foo"
just as it would be inside the package scope.

=head2 How does C<strict> and C<warnings> affect classes?

Within the body of a class, strictures should be on. I am of the
opinion that warnings should also be enabled, but I know there is some
debate as to the details of that (see L<common::sense>). So I believe
that while strictures are for sure, warnings is up for debate.

=head1 NOTES

I wonder if the best way to handle the class barewords would be to
add a CLASS slot into the TYPEGLOB? To go along with the existing
SCALAR, ARRAY, HASH, IO, etc.

=head1 AUTHOR

Stevan Little E<lt>stevan.little@iinteractive.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2011 Infinity Interactive, Inc.

L<http://www.iinteractive.com>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut